#

## DeepQ  Stepper:  A  framework  for  reactive  dynamic  walking  on  uneven terrain

### Avadesh Meduri, Majid Khadiv, Ludovic Righetti

### 8.2.2021

### Summary

- This paper proposed a step generator, which is developed for each leg, based on its current offset to the CoM, current velocity and desired robot moving velocity, learn the value function Q(s,a) for each action(step length in each directions), find the proper action and decide the next step location of the leg.

### Analysis

- Details:
  - The terrain map is known, and state space and action space is relatively compact.
  - state space for each leg: *cx-ux,cy-uy,cz-uz,cx_dot,cy_dot,cz_dot,n,vx_des,vy_des*, including offset of the leg, the CoM velocity and the status of the leg (contact or not) and the desired velocity (often along one certain direction)
  - action space: ax,ay,az (step length in all directions)
  - After computing the next step position of the foot, the base trajectory and the leg trajectory are generated by a simple QP (which can be computed really fast), and then the control signals (torques) are computed by a whole-body controller. May differ from what I know, should check it.
- Pros:
  - Can be applied onto any other controller, trajectory generators, after all it only regulates the foot positions.
  - Simplified model can compute capturability regions analytically, and Network based one can also make it, but better.
- Cons:
  - Maybe not a con, but I am still not sure how terrain information is incorporated?
  - Because this model (or simplified dynamics can actually be computed analytically, the necessity of using the learning based capturability region is not strong enough --> need to do it on a more complex terrain or robot).
    - Can quadruple robot compute that analytically?

### Thoughts

- What's the difference between a bipedal robot and a quadrupedal robot?
  - Stability issue? quadrupedal is naturally stable than bipedal. So a quadrupedal robot might be easier to transfer directly on the real robot?  (Need to be confirmed)
  - Dimension issue: quadrupedal robot has more degree to control, this will lead to difficulty for reinforcement learning as well, as the trained output/input dimension increases.
    - The idea of training both the joint position and the PD gain: Is it really feasible for higher dimensional robots? As the dimension doubles (assuming that the PD gain matrix is diagonal)
- Capturability analysis: What is the status of this now? Because it is the first time I see this terminology, What are its main applications?
  - In this paper, the capturability is captured by reinforcement learning, where the value function approximate the feasibility of all actions.
- What is the up-to-date status of the planning algorithms for bipedal robots?
- Can this step planner be applied onto a quadrupedal robot easily?
- All in all, it is a planning problem, the input dimensional is small, and also, we don't have horizon in this paper. ( To predict multiple steps in the future), because it is also possible that you go to the next step where no direction further is possible from that position.
- In this paper, the planning of foot position and the trajectory generation is decoupled, but in some robots, those are coupled together in order to achieve dynamic feasibility at the cost of larger optimization problem, for example, WBC control, and in the form of QP optimization. What is the status in bipedal robots?
- Terrain type? If applying it on the real robot, the simple case should be the terrain segments where the robot can step on, if it's non-regular terrain, unlikely it will be successful on the real robot.
- The controller part can also be learned directly, instead of using some trajectory generation techniques.
  - Input: capturability region, robot state estimations
  - Output: joint position/ velocities, that can be used to compute the torque directly.